---
layout: post
title: "A random number tells my fortune"
subtitle: "Playing with a pseudo random number generator"
description: "Here I demonstrate a fortune telling app that decides the fortune of the user based on a random number generated by a pseudo random number generator"
---

Hello, world!

I wanted to show you a web app that I built during my internship with my previous employer. I made this as part of an assignment as part of an evaluation to accept me as a dev in the organization. The assignment was to make a program that can read an xml file, parse it using DOM methods and show it in HTML.

## The Plan

I wanted to do something that others in my batch didn't. After thinking for sometime I decided to make a fortune teller program that generates a random reply for a question submitted. The idea was inspired from https://askhelixfossil.com/. I thought it would be fun and started working on it. My plan was to place all the fortunes in an xml file, read it using AJAX, parse it with DOM methods, choose a response from the xml in a random fashion and finally display the response to the user when they interact with the program through the text box available to them.

## Execute the plan

Now that my plan was clear I started coding the program. It looked something like this

```PseudoCode
WHEN the user presses 'enter key' DO
    IF query is NOT empty
        LOAD the xml from the server
        PARSE the file to extract the responses
        SELECT a random response from the list
        DISPLAY it to the user
    ELSE
        do nothing
END
```

Next, I started designing the UI. Initially, I placed only a simple text box in the center of the page for the user to input their queries. It looked so bland, that I stared making some tweaks with CSS and finally ended up cloning the ask helix website. By this time, it was late in the night so I decided this was the final design and everything worked perfectly as I wanted and went to sleep as I had my demo of this assignment the next day.

The Next day, I demoed my program/ web app to my evaluator and explained how it covered the assignment criteria. His reply was... "okay. you can go now". Just okay! nothing else! not even a word after that. I was a bit disappointed because I had high hopes for complements as mine was unique. I know it's a too much to expect complements in a workplace like in school but it was disappointing at that time.

## When the plan goes off the rails, make a new plan

After that experience, I was anxious that I would get the same reaction from you too. So, I started making some changes to the design in hopes that it would be worthy enough to post it here and out of nowhere a question popped in my head "How does `Math.random()` work?". I, like any other dev used the built in random number generator to pick random replies in my app. This question made me curious